Customer relationship management is a marketing concept, which consists customer identification, attraction, retention and development. We can say that CRM is a strategy of acquiring, retaining customers to get high value for the business and the customer. CRM strategy provides integration of technology, processes and all business works related to the customers. This project investigates how to integrate algorithms and Analysis of Recency, Frequency, and Monetary value.This analysis can be done in online trading to provide strategies based on customer purchasing behavior. To maintain and promote the business, many aspects are important to be considered to make sure that benefits increase. Customer segmentation helps businesses to target their services and prioritizing products on the basis of its gain. Success of an organization depends on attracting and keeping loyal customers. In this project, we applied various Clustering Algorithms on Customers data to segment the customers into clusters in which each cluster has definite characteristics. By comparing the above algorithms, we can find key customer clusters based on Recency, Frequency, Monetary values.
The RFM is used in the analysis of customer values. It consists of three values. The first is “Recency” which tells how recent the customer has made a transaction or purchase. Second is “Frequency” which tells how many times did the customers make a transaction or purchase. The Third is “Monetary” which is the sum of all amounts that the customer has spent buying. Using these three values, clusters are to be made by considering the scaled values of RFM. Each cluster has its definite characteristics. By understanding the characteristics of each clusters, customer groups can be identified.

